My data was a collection of board games and related information taken from BoardGameGeek.com. I decided that I wanted to visualize the relationships between the number of players and the average playtime of a board game vs the ratings it got. The dataset came with an average rating field and a bayes adjusted average field, so I decided to include the option to toggle the ratings between both. The dataset came with around 5K boardgames, so I decided to use a scatterplot to see if I could reveal any general trends/relationships in the data. With a scatterplot, it's easy to compare position along a common scale and to notice direction (slope). With this many points, I thought the user would be less interested in learning details about each individual board game, and more interested in seeing if there were general relationships between the variables.

My first controlling element lets the user switch between average rating and a bayes adjusted rating. This gives the user more control over what they want to see, as some people consider the bayes average a more statistically accurate average than just the standard average. This lets the user ask more meta questions about the data such as "Are Internet polls biased or unreliable?". My other control lets the user switch between two different graphs: playtime vs rating and players vs rating. This lets the user ask many questions: "Are boardgames more enjoyable with more people?", "Are shorter or longer boardgames more enjoyable?", and lets the user see if there are any correlations between the variables. I was curious to see if there was any relationship between these variables, but other than a slight upward trend in the playtime vs rating graph, the visualization revealed that there are little to no relations.

http://students.washington.edu/rmding95/info474/info474assignments/dataexploration/